## Gunshots
The first time you hear a gunshot that is not your own is memorable. The second time is less so, and every additional one gets less and less memorable. And when you live in a base where you hear an average of 30 gunshots per day coming from your Area of Operation(AO), you get used to it. When you see tracer rounds just outside your base, it almost feels pretty. Watching the red dots fly and land somewhere in the city, you get to just stare at them, waiting for more. It takes you a moment to realize the meaning behind this. If you’re observing tracer rounds, it means there is someone shooting another person. At some point you cannot have these questions. Who is shooting? Who is being shot at? We are the only military base in our area, so they cannot be other soldiers. Are unarmed people being attacked by an armed group? Are innocent people in danger?

Nobody in our base seemed to know the exact answer and that drove me crazy. More and more gunshots passed by.

I was determined to at least find out what was happening and one day I got the perfect opportunity. There was a sighting of tracer rounds in proximity of our base while I was on call. I skipped getting permission and ordered a Quick Reaction Force(QRF) team to deploy to the area. When the CO found out about this, he was furious, questioning who requested the QRF. He ordered them to return to base immediately, and that our base should not be taking action unless strictly necessary. I was given so much shit for this. Even my peers gave me shit that I’m acting beyond my authorities. But what if there are innocent people that we could help in danger? I believe that’s not a problem of authority anymore. We have the firepower to help them. If it happens to be combat between two armed local groups, maybe that is a different story. I wasn’t saying But we didn’t know yet. So I thought we should figure it out.

I was constantly angry at my unit for not taking actions that I believed we should. But slowly and steadily, I grew numb to these, my anger sizzled down, and I got used to playing football while hearing gunshots right outside our base.

## Numb
We had a rotation of people who took night shifts in the TOC, and this shift was from 1600 to 0830 the next morning. Also keep in mind that this is after a full day from 0830 - 1600 and physical training during lunch break. We are given two 30 minute breaks, one for lunch and one for breakfast and we cannot sleep the whole night in a small room full of screens, alarms, without any access to personal electronics.
I happened to be one of the people in this rotation and I absolutely hated these shifts. After this night shift, which we do once every week, I almost took the whole week to recover, just to be welcomed by another shift.

If there was an incident right around the time that you should be handing over to the next person, you would have to stay until the situation is resolved. One day this happened to me. Around 8 a.m, I started getting calls from the guard points(GP) in our base of multiple assault rifle gunshots with tracer rounds. There were more than 40 gunshots heard over the next 30 minutes and I had to stay an extra hour to do the handover takeover of this incident. I was so tired from the 24 consecutive hours of work and was stressed from getting my next job and fighting with my girlfriend. The last thing I wanted was an extra hour of work from some random event. I somehow managed to power through all this, ate half a breakfast, took a shower and came to my room to get some sleep.

Then it hit me. With my rifle in sight just at the foot of my bed, I rediscovered what these pieces of metal can do. People could have died while I was writing down reports of the gunshots. Innocent, good people could have died. While I was just mindlessly writing my report and being annoyed that I couldn't go to sleep soon enough, there were people out there at that exact moment, who could have lost their husbands, wives, kids, and loved ones. 

I cried after this realization. And I cried for a while more.

## Inertia
If becoming numb is the illness, inertia is the symptom. As gunshots start meaning less and less, we start caring less and less. As we care less, we stop questioning and lose the motivation to take actions. After a few months, there were people who would not report gunshots at all to avoid more work. In most jobs, you are prone to becoming numb in one way or another. For programmers, it could be messy code. When you first see it, it almost feels offensive to see something messy, but then you grow used to it. In a lot of public or non-profit organizations, there seems to be bureaucracy that eats up the drive of people with good will.

As becoming numb goes in hand with getting used to something, it’s almost impossible to prevent it. Our brains are wired to get less stimulated from repeated stimuli(reference tba). But this doesn’t mean you cannot prevent inertia. One intuitive way could be to keep reminding yourself. A more sophisticated approach that a number of companies use is to have a set of principles. Having well-founded engineering principles can ensure that engineers have a rule to follow and keep the code quality to a standard even when they get used to seeing messy code. It’s easier to realize that something is not good code when you have written down rules to compare to, and when you realize something it is one step closer to taking action to change it.

Another way to prevent inertia is to unlearn the wrong lessons. At some point as you get used to hearing gunshots, you start learning the wrong lesson that this is the norm. That this is okay. But it is not. 10 gunshots today is as bad as 10 gunshots 3 months ago, if not worse. So we have to constantly teach ourselves what is right, what is wrong, and how to look at things from a clearer perspective.

I am not saying I am or was good at unlearning such lessons nor better at fighting inertia. I really was one of the many. I can’t turn the time back and save anyone from gunshots. Neither can anyone. But the least I could do after failing to take proper action when I should have, especially as a soldier, I have to learn.

So this is what I learned.

Set some kind of alert system, whether it is written down rules, reflective writing, or whatever works for you.

When your alert system rings, unlearn the lesson, prevent your inertia, and do the right thing.